\id FRT Preface to the Understandable Bible Version
\h Preface
\toc1 Preface
\toc2 Preface
\toc3 Pre
\mt1 Preface to the Understandable Bible Version
\is1 What is the Bible?
\ip The Bible is a collection of historical narratives, stories, songs, poems, laws, wise sayings, prophecies and letters that were written, edited, copied and compiled over thousands of years by many people who were inspired by the Holy Spirit of God.
\ip  The Bible tells us who God is, what God is like, how much God loves us and how we can live a life that is truly worth living; in loving relationship with God and other people.
\ip Although the Bible contains some rules of conduct, it's purpose is not to be a rule book. The Bible reveals God’s heart—a perfect Father’s heart, full of love, compassion and care. The Bible tells you what you need to know and believe to be rescued from evil and death, completely forgiven of all your past mistakes, and how to live a peaceful, joyful and purposeful life, no matter what your circumstances may be.
\ip The Bible consists of two main sections: the Old Testament (including Psalms and Proverbs) and the New Testament (Matthew through Revelation).
\ip The Old Testament records God’s interaction with mankind and the nation of Israel before He sent His son Jesus, the Messiah, to rescue us from evil, sin and death. It also records prophecies predicting and promising the coming of the Messiah, and contains many stories, songs, poems, laws and wise sayings.
\ip The New Testament tells us of God’s only born Son Jesus - his life, death, resurrection from death and ascension into heaven - and the loving relationship and the eternal life that He offers people who accept and believe in Him. It contains wisdom for how to live life as part of God's family together with other dedicated followers of Jesus, and records prophecies predicting Jesus' second coming from heaven back to earth; a time when Jesus totally removes evil, sin and death from the world after He judges all men and women who have ever lived, and either rewards them or condemns them.
\ip The same Holy Spirit who inspired the Bible is living among us today, and He is happy to help you understand what He intended as you study the Bible. Just ask Him, and He will help you apply God's message to your life.
\ip The Old Testament was originally written mostly in Hebrew. The New Testament was originally written mostly in the common street Greek (not the formal Greek used for official legal matters). The Bible is translated into many languages, and is being translated into many more, so that everyone may have an opportunity to hear the Good News.
\is1 Why is the Understandable Bible Version being created?
\ip There are already many good translations of the Bible into contemporary English. Include reasons for this new version here.
\is1 How is the Understandable Bible Version being created?
\ip The Understandable Bible Version started with a free copy of the World English Bible, which is an update of the American Standard Version (ASV) of the Bible, published in 1901. A custom computer program had already updated the archaic words and word forms to contemporary equivalents, and then a team of volunteers had proofread and updated the grammar. The New Testament was updated to conform to the Majority Text reconstruction of the original Greek manuscripts, taking advantage of manuscripts that are available now which were not available when the original ASV was translated.
\ip Starting from The World English Bible source text, the Bibledit open source translation software is used to create the Understandable Bible Version.
\ip TBC
\is1 What is different about the Understandable Bible Version?
\ip The ...
\is1 What is different about the World English Bible?
\ip The style of the World English Bible, while fairly literally translated, is in informal, spoken English. The World English Bible is designed to sound good and be accurate when read aloud. It is not formal in its language, just as the original Greek of the New Testament was not formal. The WEB uses contractions rather freely.
\ip The World English Bible doesn’t capitalize pronouns pertaining to God. The original manuscripts made no such distinction. Hebrew has no such thing as upper and lower case, and the original Greek manuscripts were written in all upper case letters. Attempting to add in such a distinction raises some difficulties in translating dual-meaning Scriptures such as the coronation psalms.
\ip The World English Bible main edition translates God’s Proper Name in the Old Testament as “Yahweh.”
\ip Because World English Bible uses the Majority Text as the basis for the New Testament, you may notice the following differences in comparing the WEB to other translations:
\ili The order of Matthew 23:13 and 14 is reversed in some translations.
\ili Luke 17:36 and Acts 15:34, which are not found in the majority of the Greek Manuscripts (and are relegated to footnotes in the WEB) may be included in some other translations.
\ili Romans 14:24-26 in the WEB may appear as Romans 16:25-27 in other translations.
\ili 1 John 5:7-8 contains an addition in some translations, including the KJV. Erasmus admitted adding this text to his published Greek New Testament, even though he could at first find no Greek manuscript support for it, because he was being pressured by men to do so, and because he didn’t see any doctrinal harm in it. Lots of things not written by John in this letter are true, but we decline to add them to what the Holy Spirit inspired through John.
\ip With all of the above and some other places where lack of clarity in the original manuscripts has led to multiple possible readings, significant variants are listed in footnotes. The reading that in our prayerful judgment is best is in the main text. Overall, the World English Bible doesn’t differ very much from several other good contemporary English translations of the Holy Bible. The message of eternal life through Jesus Christ is still the same. The point of this translation was not to be very different (except for legal status), but to update the ASV for readability while retaining or improving the accuracy of that well-respected translation and retaining the public domain status of the ASV.
\is1 What are MT, TR, and NU?
\ip In the footnotes, MT refers to the Greek Majority Text New Testament, which is the authoritative basis for this translation. TR stands for Textus Receptus, which is the Greek Text from which the King James Version New Testament was translated. NU stands for the Nestle-Aland/UBS critical text of the Greek New Testament, which is used as a basis for some other Bible translations.
\is1 More Information
\ip For answers to frequently asked questions about the World English Bible, please visit the web site at WorldEnglish.Bible.